---
layout: post
title: Using JHipster to build your project scaffolding  
---

JHipster is a great tool to generate an integrated scaffolding for a set of Open APi, Spring Boot, Angular, and docker-compose.  

It is a generator of [Yeoman] (https://yeoman.io/learning/) which is built on from [npm] (https://www.npmjs.com/).

It is stable with Java 8 on Ubuntu 16.04.  I assume that Java 11 on Ubuntu 18.10 will be the next stable point.

Here is an example of checking java and changing it from java 11 to java 8.  Note this is a global change of the default version.

```
java -version
openjdk version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 11.0.1+13-Ubuntu-2ubuntu1)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 11.0.1+13-Ubuntu-2ubuntu1, mixed mode, sharing)

sudo apt-get install openjdk-8-jdk

ls -l /etc/alternatives/java
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 43 Oct 31 15:20 /etc/alternatives/java -> /usr/lib/jvm/java-11-openjdk-amd64/bin/java

sudo update-java-alternatives --list
java-1.11.0-openjdk-amd64      1111       /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.11.0-openjdk-amd64
java-1.8.0-openjdk-amd64       1081       /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-amd64

sudo update-java-alternatives --set java-1.8.0-openjdk-amd64

java -version
openjdk version "1.8.0_181"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_181-8u181-b13-1ubuntu0.18.10.1-b13)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.181-b13, mixed mode)
```

To use just type `jhipster` and it will create your files in your current directory based on your menu choices.  By default it uses a series of command line menus to initialize your Application

There are 4 types of Applications that can be generated.

1. Monolithic application (recommended for simple projects)
2. Microservice application
3. Microservice gateway
4. JHipster UAA server (for microservice OAuth2 authentication)

During the execution of the jhipster command, it will also give instruction to any maintenance commands that should be run outside of the application.

Here are some example messages.
```
 ️⚠️  WARNING ⚠️  You are in your HOME folder!
 This can cause problems, you should always create a new directory and run the jhipster command from here.
 See the troubleshooting section at https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/
```
```
 _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

  Documentation for creating an application is at https://www.jhipster.tech/creating-an-app/
  If you find JHipster useful, consider sponsoring the project at https://opencollective.com/generator-jhipster
 _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
```

```
 WARNING! Java 1.8 is not found on your computer. Your Java version is: 11.0.1
```

```
 ______________________________________________________________________________

  JHipster update available: 5.7.1 (current: 5.3.4)

  Run `npm install -g generator-jhipster` to update.

 ______________________________________________________________________________
```

```
   ╭───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
   │                                                               │
   │       New minor version of npm available! 6.4.1 → 6.5.0       │
   │   Changelog: https://github.com/npm/cli/releases/tag/v6.5.0   │
   │               Run npm install -g npm to update!               │
   │                                                               │
   ╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

## JHipster UAA server

There are three options for service discovery

1. ❯ JHipster Registry (uses Eureka, provides Spring Cloud Config support and monitoring dashboards)
2. Consul
3. No service discovery

There are four options for databases to use

1. ❯ SQL (H2, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MSSQL)
2. MongoDB
3. Couchbase
4. Cassandra

Note: the type of database will affect the behavoir of the models. For example, you cannot configure relationships if you choose MongoDB since it is a NoSQL database. 

There are five options for spring cache abstraction

1. Yes, with the Ehcache implementation (local cache, for a single node)
2. ❯ Yes, with the Hazelcast implementation (distributed cache, for multiple nodes)
3. [BETA] Yes, with the Infinispan implementation (hybrid cache, for multiple nodes)
4. Yes, with Memcached (distributed cache) - Warning, when using an SQL database, this will disable the Hibernate 2nd level cache!
5. No - Warning, when using an SQL database, this will disable the Hibernate 2nd level cache!

There are two options for building the backend

1. ❯ Maven
2. Gradle

There are three othter technologies to add

? Which other technologies would you like to use? (Press <space> to select, <a> to toggle all, <i> to invert selection)

1. ❯◯ Search engine using Elasticsearch
2.  ◯ Asynchronous messages using Apache Kafka
3.  ◯ API first development using OpenAPI-generator
 
You can add support for 41 internationalizations

1. Albanian
2. Arabic (Libya)
3. Armenian
4. Belorussian
5. Bengali
6. Catalan
7. Chinese (Simplified)
8. Chinese (Traditional)
9. Czech
10. Danish
11. Dutch
12. English
13. Estonian
14. Farsi
15. French
16. Galician
17. German
18. Greek
19. Hindi
20. Hungarian
21. Indonesian
22. Italian
23. Japanese
24. Korean
25. Marathi
26. Myanmar
27. Polish
28. Portuguese (Brazilian)
29. Portuguese
30. Romanian
31. Russian
32. Slovak
33. Serbian
34. Spanish
35. Swedish
36. Turkish
37. Tamil
38. Thai
39. Ukrainian
40. Uzbek (latin)
41. Vietnamese
  
There are two optional testing frameworks to use
  
1. ❯◯ Gatling
2. ◯ Cucumber

You can install 22 other generators from the JHipster Marketplace (default is no)

1. ◯ (generator-jhipster-nav-element-2.1.0) A generator to scaffold a new page (and the corresponding navigation menu) in a 2JHipster project.
3. ◯ (generator-jhipster-vuejs2-0.4.79) jHipster generator for vuejs client side
4. ◯ (generator-jhipster-primeng-charts-1.2.0) Generate sample charts with PrimeNG
5. ◯ (generator-jhipster-primeng-2.1.0) Generate PrimeNG Components
6. ◯ (generator-jhipster-docker-2.5.0) Additional Docker support: Docker Hub, Local SMTP Server, NGinx
7. ◯ (generator-jhipster-spring-cloud-stream-1.0.0) JHipster module for messaging microservices with Spring Cloud Stream
8. ◯ (generator-jhipster-standalone-profile-2.2.0) Add standalone profile to Jhipster application
9. ◯ (generator-jhipster-swagger-cli-3.0.1) JHipster module to generate swagger client code from a swagger definition
10. ◯ (generator-jhipster-electron-1.0.0) A jhipster module to run spring boot app in electron package
11. ◯ (generator-jhipster-leafletmap-2.0.0) This module generates a leaflet map in a new page of a monolithic and Angular 5 jhipster application (4.14.1).
12. ◯ (generator-jhipster-audit-helper-1.0.3) JHipster module to enable entity audit
13. ◯ (generator-jhipster-obfuscation-at-rest-0.3.0) JHipster module for creating data obfuscation at rest (only JPA support)
14. ◯ (generator-codegen-0.2.1) Yeoman generator to scaffold new generators
15. ◯ (generator-jhipster-uaa-security-authority-1.0.1) A JHipster module that create uaa security authority restful resource for communication between uaa and microservices
16. ◯ (generator-jhipster-feign-client-1.0.6) JHipster module for create feign client with entity for communication between two microservices
17. ◯ (generator-jhipster-social-login-api-0.0.1) Adds social login api calls to work with native Android and iOS apps from android-jhi generator
18. ◯ (generator-jhipster-vmware-clarity-1.1.1) A JHipster module that create VMWare Clarity Design UI framework for Angular client.
19. ◯ (generator-jhipster-cockroachdb-0.0.10) Jhipster CockroachDB
20. ◯ (generator-jhipster-vuejsx-0.0.1) jHipster generator for vuejs client side
21. ◯ (generator-jhipster-file2url-0.0.0) add file entity save with url
22. ◯ (generator-jhipster-aeropost-1.6.0) Add Scheduler Lock

After click enter the application will:

1. create a local git repo
2. extract the node_modules folder for staging  
3. add the files
3. commit the files to git

```
Installing generator-jhipster@5.7.1 locally using npm
[            ......] \ extract:lodash: sill extract lodash@4.17.11
```

If you chose maven, the application will finish with the something like the following

```
npm notice created a lockfile as package-lock.json. You should commit this file.
added 511 packages from 331 contributors and audited 3747 packages in 106.25s
found 0 vulnerabilities

Application successfully committed to Git.

If you find JHipster useful consider sponsoring the project https://www.jhipster.tech/sponsors/

Server application generated successfully.

Run your Spring Boot application:
./mvnw
INFO! Congratulations, JHipster execution is complete!
```

# starting a maven application

Type `./mvnw` to build and launch the default application

If Java 8 is not installed you will see this error

```
[WARNING] Rule 1: org.apache.maven.plugins.enforcer.RequireJavaVersion failed with message:
You are running an incompatible version of Java. JHipster requires JDK 1.8
```

This will probably fail if you do not have the external services (like mongoDB and jhipster-registery) already running on default ports locally.

## jhipster-registry
This can be found on docker hub [jhipster-registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/jhipster/jhipster-registry/).
jhipster/jhipster-registry

## mongo 
This can be found on docker hub [mongo](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo)

## mysql
This can be found on docker hub [mySQL](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql)

etc.




